[Music]
I would like to introduce you to one of
the most amazing scientists who have
ever lived
so famous that more places on earth have
been named after him than any human
being so famous that President Thomas
Jefferson said he was the most important
scientist he ever met and Simon Bulevar
called him the true Discoverer of South
America on the hundredth anniversary of
his birth every story on the front page
of the New York Times was written about
him who is the scientist and what did he
do that was so extraordinary his name is
Alexander von Humboldt never heard of
him most people haven't his name has
been lost in history but here is what he
did alexander von humboldt started as a
practicing geologist but when an
inheritance allowed him the freedom to
travel he began an incredible five-year
scientific journey through South America
Mexico and Cuba from 1799 to 1804 von
Humboldt and his botanist partner on a
boat long traveled through the jungles
of Venezuela made detailed drawings of
Inca ruins while exploring the mountains
of Peru and traversed the breadth of
Mexico and Cuba he explored the length
of the Orinoco River in Venezuela this
1,700 mile portion of the trip was
filled with danger disease and fantastic
new discoveries for example von Humboldt
was the first Explorer to witness the
preparation of the Kyary plant for
poison arrows he recognized the
importance of the cinchona tree whose
bark contains quinine which is a
malarial cure and discovered the ocean
current which limits rainfall on the
coast of peru later named the Humboldt
Current he discovered and described many
new species of plants and animals
including the electric eel in Ecuador he
climbed one of the highest volcanoes
Chimborazo so that he could record air
pressure something no one had ever done
at this altitude the entire journey
covered over 24,000 miles the same
distance as a circumference of the earth
along the way he took measurements about
the shape of the land its temperature
the air pressure and the strength of
magnetic fields by connecting places of
identical temperatures he created
contour maps with lines of similar
temperatures which he called isotherms
because Humboldt invented these maps
scientists began to see patterns
in the life and the types of life
present in certain places and he became
a pioneer in the visual presentation of
scientific data these discoveries and
measurements were critical to what made
him such an important scientist until
Humboldt scientists who described new
plants and animals did not clearly see
the crucial connection between living
things and the places in which they
lived called habitats they did not
appreciate the role of the environment
on the diversity of life humble
discovered and understood the importance
of these connections because of this he
has considered the founder of
biogeography he also developed a theory
called the unity of nature which shows
the interconnectedness of all nature
this knowledge plays a vital role in the
preservation and protection of our
habitat his book cosmos describes the
theory and is still in print today as
celebrated as scientists as he was von
Humboldt was also generous thus serving
another role in the world
he was the mentor and teacher to younger
scientists in fact just recently it was
discovered the crucial role that
Humboldt played in the work of his most
famous pen pal Charles Darwin a young
Darwin read Humboldt extensively and
wrote in his diary while on the Beagle I
am at present fit only to read humble he
like another Sun illuminates everything
I behold today although Humboldt is
known and revered by a small community
of scientists he is almost totally
forgotten by many of us Alexander von
Humboldt in fluence is apparent
everywhere and in every scientific
discipline he is perhaps the most
important forgotten man of science but
he doesn't have to be because if you
remember him perhaps his influence will
be celebrated
you